New snapshot configs (#5817)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/resource-configs/target_database.md

datatype: string
---

:::note

> For [versionless](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-v1.8#keep-on-latest-version) dbt Cloud accounts and dbt Core v1.9+ this functionality is no longer utilized. See the [database](/reference/resource-configs/database) config reference page for information on configuring snapshots moving forward. 

Author: ```suggestion
For [versionless](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-v1.8#keep-on-latest-version) dbt Cloud accounts and dbt Core v1.9+ this functionality is no longer utilized. Use the [database](/reference/resource-configs/database) config as an alternative to define a custom database while still respecting the `generate_database_name` macro. 
```

> For [versionless](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-v1.8#keep-on-latest-version) dbt Cloud accounts and dbt Core v1.9+ this functionality is no longer utilized. Use the [database](/reference/resource-configs/database) config as an alternative to define a custom database while still respecting the `generate_database_name` macro. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For [versionless](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-v1.8#keep-on-latest-version) dbt Cloud accounts and dbt Core v1.9+, this functionality is no longer utilized. Use the [database](/reference/resource-configs/database) config as an alternative to define a custom database while still respecting the `generate_database_name` macro. 
```

> For [versionless](/docs/dbt-versions/core-upgrade/upgrading-to-v1.8#keep-on-latest-version) dbt Cloud accounts and dbt Core v1.9+, this functionality is no longer utilized. Use the [database](/reference/resource-configs/database) config as an alternative to define a custom database while still respecting the `generate_database_name` macro. 

Reviewer 2: same question on "versionless"

datatype: string
---

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.9">

:::warning Legacy configuration

> For environments on versionless dbt Cloud or dbt Core v1.9+, the `target_database` configuration is now optional. Best practices dictate that the `target_database` config should be removed from snapshots in the environment, in which case the snapshots will instead utilize the `generate_database_name` macro by default. Project snapshots configured with `target_schema` will continue to work as expected. 

Reviewer 2: I believe `target_database` has always been optional

Reviewer 3: Yes.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think worth calling out the new `database` config as the alternative way to put snapshots in a custom database while still respecting `generate_database_name` macro

Reviewer 4: 💪

Author: Done and done. Added similar language to the schema section as well
